Blocking Topic Guides (#1389)
moj-analytical-services/splink: docs/topic_guides/blocking/performance.md

    This blocking rule could be loosened to:

    `substr(l.first_name,1,1) = substr(r.first_name,1,1) and l.surname = r.surname and l.year_of_birth = r.year_of_birth`

    Now it allows for typos or aliases in the first name, so long as the first letter is the same, and errors in month or day of birth.

    Depending on the side of your input data, the rule could be further loosened to

    `substr(l.first_name,1,1) = substr(r.first_name,1,1) and l.surname = r.surname`

    or even

    `l.surname = r.surname`

    The user could use the `linker.count_num_comparisons_from_blocking_rule()` function to select which rule is appropriate for their data.

## Efficient Blocking Rules

While the number of pariwise comparisons is important for reducing the computation, it is also helpful to consider the efficiency of the Blocking Rules. There are a number of ways to define subsets of records (i.e. "blocks"), but they are not all computationally efficient.

From a performance prespective, here we consider two classes of blocking rule:

- Equi-join conditions
- Filter conditions

> ### Equi-join Blocking Rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Equi-join Conditions
```

Equi-joins are simply equality conditions between records, e.g.

`l.first_name = r.first_name`

These equality-based blocking rules are extremely efficient and can be executed quickly, even on very large datasets. 

Equality-based blocking rules should be considered the default method for defining blocking rules and form the basis of the upcoming [Blocking Rules Library](https://github.com/moj-analytical-services/splink/pull/1370).

> ### Filter Blocking Rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Filter Conditions
```

Filter conditions refer to any Blocking Rule that isn't a simple equality between columns. E.g.

`levenshtein(l.surname, r.surname) < 3`

Similarity based blocking rules, such as the example above, are inefficient as the `levenshtein` function needs to be evaluated for all possible record comparisons before filtering out the pairs that do not satisfy the filter condition.

### Combining Blocking Rules Efficiently

Just as how Blocking Rules can impact on performance, so can how they are combined. The most efficient Blocking Rules combinations are "AND" statements. E.g.

`l.first_name = r.first_name AND l.surname = r.surname`

"OR" statements are not as efficient and should be used sparingly. E.g.

`l.first_name = r.first_name OR l.surname = r.surname`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most SQL engines, an `OR` condition within a blocking rule will result in all possible record comparisons being generated.  That is, the whole blocking rule becomes a filter condition rather than an equi-join condition, so these should be avoided.  For further information, see [here](https://github.com/moj-analytical-services/splink/discussions/1417#discussioncomment-6420575).
```

??? note "Spark-specific Further Reading"

    Given the ability to parallelise operations in Spark, there are some additional configuration options which can improve performance of blocking. Please refer to the Spark Performance Topic Guides for more information.

>     Note: In Spark Equi-joins can also be referred to as **hashed** rules, and facilitates splitting the workload across multiple machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Note: In Spark Equi-joins are implemented using hash partitioning, which facilitates splitting the workload across multiple machines.
```
